- Author: Zejian Zhuang(庄泽坚)
- Title: 全重四夸克态的研究
- Title(English): SYSTEMATIC STUDY OF FULL HEAVY TETRAQUARK STATES

My master thesis was wriiten in Chinese. It may be not friendly for person who speaks English or other languages. But here I provide the abstract written in English to help someone knows my work.

Abstract:

Experimental investigations and theoretical studies of exotic hadrons beyond the classical quark model are vital for understanding the nonperturbative properties of strong interaction theory quantum chromodynamics. The quark model proposed in 1964 is very successful in explaining the properties of hadrons that were discovered from the 1950s to 1960s and it predicted the $\Omega$ baryon, which was identified in an experiment at Brookhaven National Laboratory. However, the classical quark model fails for describing the structure of XYZ states that have been observed since 2003. These states beyond the conventional quark model are called exotic hadrons. In particular, these exotic hadrons not only encompass the hidden heavy flavor quarks $c\bar{c}$ or $b\bar{b}$, but also light flavor quarks $u\bar{d}$ or $\bar{u}d$. The discovery of charmonium- and bottomonium-like states has inaugurated a new era of studying multiquark systems, which also provide us a unique platform to gain more information into the low-energy QCD.

Another interesting research field is multiquark states that only include heavy flavor quarks. In fact, pioneering studies on the heavy tetraquark systems are traced back to about 50 years ago. On the other hand, an investigation for the tetraquark $bb\bar{b}\bar{b}$ was carried out by LHCb Collaboration. However, there was no information for observing it. Fortunately, in 2020, the first tetraquark comprising all charm quarks and antiquarks have been spotted by LHCb Collaboration. LHCb Collaboration reported these resonant structures in the $J/\psi J/\psi$ invariant mass distribution produced by pp collisions at the c.m. energies 7, 8 and 13 TeV. There is a bump around 6.9 GeV. Its statistical significance is more than 5σ, which means that we can think there exists a new particle. This narrow structure is dubbed X(6900). Here X denotes the fact that we are not yet certain about the key properties of this particle, including its spin, parity, and so on. There is also a broad structure located in the energy range [6.2, 6.8]GeV. The experimental results arouse interest for theoretical physicists.

In non-relativistic approximation, we adopt a parametric framework that includes the chromoelectro and chromomagnetic interaction to describe the heavy tetraquark under a compact tetraquark picture. We extract these parameters from the existed heavy hadrons. Then we discuss the mass spectrum of all heavy tetraquark systems by diagonalizing the Hamiltonian. From the mass spectrum, we show all possible decay channels for the heavy tetraquark systems and calculate their decay widths. In the spectrum of the full charm tetraquark system, there are three states whose masses are less than 6.8 GeV. They are X(6035) and X(6254) in $0^{++}$ and X(6194) in $2^{++}$, respectively. The masses of them are below 6.8GeV. In order to research for the properties of these states and X(6900), we extract the internal structure of the full charm tetraquarks from the experimental data. By constructing coupled-channel models to describe the data, we find that the X(6900) may be the cusp effect from the $J/\psi\psi(3770)$ channel. What’s more, there is also a cusp that is slight below 6.8 GeV stemming from the $J∕\psi \psi'$ channel. Two $0^{++}$ tetraquark whose masses are above the $\eta_c \eta_c$ and $J/\psi J/\psi$ threshold behave as two resonances. The $2^{++}$ state is a bound state below the $J⁄\psi J⁄\psi$ threshold. In addition, our results show that the X(6035) is a significant structure in the $\eta_c \eta_c$ lineshape after the coupled channel effect. It is a unique feature that can distinguish compact tetraquark pictures from loosely hadronic molecule pictures. Furthermore, we estimate the compositeness of full heavy tetraquarks that we predict using the Weinberg criterion. The results support the X(6035), X(6254), and X(6192) as compact tetraquarks with probabilities of more than 95%.